Adds docs for cloud target discovery (#1448)
OctopusDeploy/docs: docs/infrastructure/deployment-targets/cloud-target-discovery/index.md

---
title: Cloud Target Discovery

> description: Resources created in cloud providers can be discovered as deployment targets by Octopus

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Cloud resources can be discovered and registered as deployment targets by Octopus
```

position: 100
---

:::hint
The Early Access Preview of the cloud target discovery feature was added in **Octopus 2022.1** and is enabled via **{{Configuration, Features}}**.
:::

> Octopus can discover deployment targets during deployments using tags added to your cloud resources. Octopus will remove any discovered targets when the associated cloud resource is removed. Target discovery takes place before deployment steps, and is useful when your deployment process creates your target cloud infrastructure before deploying software to it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Octopus can discover deployment targets during deployments using tags added to your cloud resources. Octopus will remove any discovered targets when the associated cloud resource is removed. Target discovery takes place during deployment, and is useful when your deployment process creates your target cloud infrastructure before deploying software to it.
```

:::hint

> Using discovery of deployment targets is recommended over the existing [dynamic infrastructure](/docs/infrastructure/deployment-targets/dynamic-infrastructure/index.md) functionality.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We recommend cloud target discovery over the existing [dynamic infrastructure](/docs/infrastructure/deployment-targets/dynamic-infrastructure/index.md) functionality.
```

| `octopus-role`        | Yes      | The [role](/docs/infrastructure/deployment-targets/index.md#target-roles) that should be applied to the target. Only deployments with a step that matches the role will discover the target. | `octopus-role = PetShotFrontEnd`    |
| `octopus-space`       | No       | The name of the [space](/docs/administration/spaces/index.md) the target can be used in. If present only deployments within the matching space can discover the target.                      | `octopus-space = PetShopTeam`       |
| `octopus-project`     | No       | The name of the [project](/docs/projects/index.md) the target will be discovered by. If present only deployments for the matching project can discover the target.                           | `octopus-project = PetShop`         |
| `octopus-tenant`      | No       | The name of the [tenant](/docs/projects/index.md) the target can be discovered for. If present only deployments for the matching tenant will discover the target.                            | `octopus-tenant = MyClient`         |

## Add step to deployment process

> Octopus will discover targets if one of the following steps are in your deployment process. Each step will discover targets that match it's target role before the step is run.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Octopus will discover targets if one of the following steps are in your deployment process. Each step will discover targets that match it's target role.
```

- Deploy an Azure App Service
- Deploy an Azure Web App (Web Deploy)

## Enabling discovery for existing projects

> Target discovery is enabled for all new projects by default, to enable it for existing projects use the following steps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Target discovery is enabled for all new projects by default. 

If you have an existing project, enable it with the following steps.
```

### Enable dynamic infrastructure

To discover targets for an environment, dynamic infrastructure needs to be enabled. To enable for an existing environment:

1. Navigate to **{{Infrastructure,Environments}}**.
1. Click the ... overflow menu for the environment you want to enable or disable dynamic infrastructure on and select **Edit**.

> 1. Expand the **Dynamic infrastructure** section and tick or untick the check-box to enable or disable managing dynamic infrastructure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Expand the **Dynamic infrastructure** section and tick the check-box to enable dynamic infrastructure.
```

1. Click **SAVE**.

### Enable deployments without a target

> Using target discovery during a deployment means that there may be no existing targets at the start of a deployment. To allow deployments to start without any targets for an existing project:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using target discovery during a deployment means that there may be no existing targets at the start of a deployment. To allow deployments to start without any targets:
```

1. Navigate to **{{Projects,{Project name},Deployments,Settings}}**.
1. Expand the **Deployment Targets Required** and select the "Allow deployments to be created when there are no deployment targets" option.
1. Click **SAVE**.

## Examples

### Azure Web App

Let's say you have an project in Octopus called _Pet Shop_ that deploys an application to an Azure Web App in a _Development_ environment using a role of _PetShopFrontEnd_ and this web app is dynamically created as part of the deployment using an ARM template.

To use this web app previously in Octopus you might have either registered the target manually, or used a [script step](/docs/infrastructure/deployment-targets/dynamic-infrastructure/azure-web-app-target.md) with custom code to try and find and create the web app target. In addition, previously when this web app was no longer needed you might have needed to either [run a script](/docs/infrastructure/deployment-targets/dynamic-infrastructure/remove-octopustarget.md) or manually remove the target in Octopus.

> By configuring credentials in a variable and adding tags to the deployment of the web app Octopus can discover this target for you and also remove the target from Octopus when it is removed in Azure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By configuring a well-known variable and tagging your Azure Web App appropriately, Octopus can discover this target for you at deployment time. Additionally, Octopus will continue to monitor the target, and will remove it if it is removed in Azure.
```

- Configure an [Azure account](/docs/projects/variables/azure-account-variables.md) variable in your project named **Octopus.Azure.Account**, selecting an account that has permissions to be able to find the web app.

> - Add tags to the ARM template for the web app to allow Octopus to discover it. For our example we can add the following tags to ensure that it is discovered correctly by our (and only by our project) using [variable substitution](/docs/projects/variables/variable-substitutions.md):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Add tags to the web app resource within the ARM template to allow Octopus to discover it. For our example we can add the following tags to ensure that it is discovered correctly by our (and only by our project) using [variable substitution](/docs/projects/variables/variable-substitutions.md):
```

---
title: Cloud Target Discovery
description: Cloud resources can be discovered and registered as deployment targets by Octopus
position: 100
---

:::hint
The Early Access Preview of the cloud target discovery feature was added in **Octopus 2022.1** and is enabled via **{{Configuration, Features}}**. The preview does not currently include removal of targets when the cloud resource is removed, this is on our roadmap.
:::

Octopus can discover deployment targets during deployments using tags added to your cloud resources. Target discovery takes place during deployment, and is useful when your deployment process creates your target cloud infrastructure before deploying software to it.

:::hint
We recommend cloud target discovery over the existing [dynamic infrastructure](/docs/infrastructure/deployment-targets/dynamic-infrastructure/index.md) functionality.
:::

> To enable discovery use the following steps.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This page will walk you through the steps needed to enable cloud target discovery.
```

## Configure credentials for discovery

To perform discovery of targets from cloud resources, Octopus uses a well-known set of variables configured within your project to provide the credentials for authentication to the cloud provider. Variables can be [scoped](/docs/projects/variables/index.md#scoping-variables) allowing for different credentials to be used when performing discovery as required (for example in different environments).

The variables used are different for each supported cloud provider.

### Azure

> To discover Azure cloud resources, Octopus uses an [Azure account](/docs/projects/variables/azure-account-variables.md) variable named **Octopus.Azure.Account**.

Reviewer 2: I wonder if this section either needs to labour the point of the name in stronger wording, or a hint to say something like:

> If you have another Azure account variable named differently, Octopus won't look for Azure cloud resources to discover. The account must be named **Octopus.Azure.Account**.

My reasoning is I can imagine a scenario where a customer doesn't see the importance of the name of the variable, and instead just *assumes* it would work if they have any Azure account variable.

Author: Yep it's prob good to be extra specific here, I might change it to:

```suggestion
To discover Azure cloud resources, Octopus will look for a specifically named [Azure account](/docs/projects/variables/azure-account-variables.md) variable **Octopus.Azure.Account**.
```

Reviewer 2: Yes, I like that much more than my hint 😄

| `octopus-tenant`      | No       | The name of the [tenant](/docs/projects/index.md) the target can be discovered for. If present only deployments for the matching tenant will discover the target.                            | `octopus-tenant = MyClient`         |

## Add step to deployment process

Octopus will discover targets if one of the following steps are in your deployment process. Each step will discover targets that match it's target role.

- Deploy an Azure App Service
- Deploy an Azure Web App (Web Deploy)

## Enabling discovery for existing projects

Target discovery is enabled for all new projects and environments by default.

If you have an existing project or environment, enable it with the following steps.

### Enable dynamic infrastructure

To discover targets for an environment, dynamic infrastructure needs to be enabled. To enable for an existing environment:

1. Navigate to **{{Infrastructure,Environments}}**.

> 1. Click the ... overflow menu for the environment you want to enable or disable dynamic infrastructure on and select **Edit**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Click the overflow menu (`...`) for the environment you want to enable or disable dynamic infrastructure on and select **Edit**.
```

1. Expand the **Dynamic infrastructure** section and tick the check-box to enable dynamic infrastructure.
1. Click **SAVE**.

### Enable deployments without a target

Using target discovery during a deployment means that there may be no existing targets at the start of a deployment. To allow deployments to start without any targets:

1. Navigate to **{{Projects,{Project name},Deployments,Settings}}**.

> 1. Expand the **Deployment Targets Required** and select the "Allow deployments to be created when there are no deployment targets" option.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Expand the **Deployment Targets Required** and select the **Allow deployments to be created when there are no deployment targets** option.
```

By configuring a well-known variable and tagging your Azure Web App appropriately, Octopus can discover this target for you at deployment time. Additionally, Octopus will continue to monitor the target, and will remove it if it is removed in Azure.

- Configure an [Azure account](/docs/projects/variables/azure-account-variables.md) variable in your project named **Octopus.Azure.Account**, selecting an account that has permissions to be able to find the web app.
- Add tags to the web app resource within the ARM template to allow Octopus to discover it. For our example we can add the following tags to ensure that it is discovered correctly by our (and only by our project) using [variable substitution](/docs/projects/variables/variable-substitutions.md):

```json
"resources": [{
    "type": "Microsoft.Web/sites",
    //...otherProperties,
    "tags": {
        "octopus-environment": "#{Octopus.Environment.Name}",
        "octopus-role": "PetShopFrontEnd",
        "octopus-project": "#{Octopus.Project.Name}"
    }
}]
```

> Octopus will now discover the web app as a target before deploying to it, matching the environment, role and project from the deployment to the tags created with the ARM template, without any custom scripts or manual registration! Octopus will also remove this target if it is later removed from Azure.

Reviewer 2: This might not be an issue, but the last sentence contradicts the hint at the start of the page referring to functionality on removing targets not being available in the EAP. If the functionality will be available before the doco goes live, then no issue. If not, we might want to highlight this again, or change the wording?

```suggestion
Octopus will now discover the web app as a target before deploying to it, matching the environment, role, and project from the deployment to the tags created with the ARM template, without any custom scripts or manual registration! Octopus will also remove this target if it is later removed from Azure in future releases of this feature.
```
